---
layout: post
title: "Leaving"
description: "Getting ready to leave CSIRO, and considering my R project package system"
category: notes
tags: [simulation, PGHG, job-search]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

##Morning

* I have been spending the last few weeks preparing for my iminent departure from CSIRO, as my contract ends today, which is why I haven't posted here in awhile. It's surprising how much work it takes to leave a place. So I am now officially looking for another job. A few promising positions to apply for so far. I will see how it goes. Finally signed up for LinkedIn, in case it makes a difference :)

* I discovered that my local WA beach (Scarborough Beach) has free wi-fi access! So I am thinking during my work hiatus, I will be spending some time catching up on manuscripts at the beach, watching the surfers, and enjoying the sea air. I am looking forward to it.

##Afternoon

* Did some work on my phylogenetic habitat heterogeneity simulation project (#PGHG). Started writing out the models that underly it (http://rdinnager.github.io/PGHG-Project/theModel).

* The new package based project system is working out well so far. A few issues I have run into using Carl Boettiger's system of putting `.Rmd` scripts into a gh-pages branch, so that their 'html' outputs can be rendered by github. The main issue is when I use a script to make a cleaned up dataset, which I then put into the `data` directory of the project package. This works great, as long as I remember not to commit the data file into the gh-pages branch, and then switch to `master` before committing it. The issue comes when I have committed the data file to `master` but then I realize I need to update and rerun the data cleaning script. When I do so, the new data file created will overwrite the `master` version if I switch branches from `gh-pages` to `master`, and so git will not let me do it. My current workaround is to copy the new data file from `data` into the package root, then switch branches, and then copy it back into `data`, overwriting the old version. This is a bit cumbersome, but not too bad, as long I don't have to do it too often. 

* I am considering writing an R script to automatically knit all `.Rmd` files in a directory, adding a header, and generating an index page. This would mainly be to avoid cluttering all of my project's `gh-pages` branches with Jekyll layout files, and also because I think it would be fun to write a static page generator in R. My greater knowledge of R compared with Ruby would allow me to more easily add interesting original features too.